[h1] Devin fixes tens of thousands of hours of technical debt, letting engineers focus on what matters most: saving their customers time and money
[h2] About the company
[p] Ramp is a financial operations platform helping companies save time and money. Their all-in-one platform combines corporate cards, bill payments, procurement and vendor management, travel booking, treasury, and more with built-in controls and intelligence to maximize the impact of every dollar and hour spent. Founded in 2019, Ramp is one of the fastest growing companies in the US, powering tens of billions in purchases annually for over 30,000+ businesses.
[h2] Overview
[p] As Ramp continues to grow and expand into new product areas, they fight to manage an ever-growing technical backlog. Whether “business-as-usual” work (triaging on-call bugs, fixing broken tests) or “punch-list” tasks (resolving flakey tests or optimizing N+1 queries), the technical debt accumulation quickly began to take time away from the engineering team’s focus on product execution.
[p] After some experimentation, Ramp found that a very small team of Devin-savvy engineers could be responsible for tens of thousands of engineer hours saved and up to weekly 80 merged PRs, tackling tasks that reached horizontally across the engineering organization. As part of their process, the applied Al team at Ramp built a new Devin workflow to tackle a different technical debt task every week, in some cases integrating the workflow directly into their ongoing SDLC.
[p] There are three categories of solutions Ramp has implemented using Devin:
[h2] The problem: fighting technical debt accumulation
[p] As any codebase grows, so too does the number of rote, repetitive clean-up tasks necessary to pay back larger and larger amounts of technical debt build-up. Typically, these are the types of tasks engineers dread – repetitive, uninteresting maintenance tasks that account for up to 20% of engineering time.
[p] A test suite full of unoptimized tests, for example, has a clear and direct negative effect on developer velocity. Since most Ramp developers regularly run tests locally as part of their SDLC, any speed improvement to the test suite gets multiplied by hundreds, if not thousands, of executions each day. Accelerating the test suite completion time by an entire minute can quickly add up to thousands of developer hours saved per year.
[p] Take feature flag removal as another example – hundreds of deprecated feature flags and forked logic across the codebase makes the code slower and less readable. If an engineer is triaging a critical bug and encounters a feature flag, determining if it is still in use requires switching context, investigating the feature flag manager, understanding the code logic, and can add significant time and complexity to an already tedious task.
[p] Feature flag removal also cannot be solved in a straightforward or scriptable manner. It requires understanding the core logic of the code and identifying all of the potential downstream impacts of removing a code fork. Given many hundreds of feature flags at Ramp, this was starting to become a clear blocker to developer velocity
[h2] The solution: one Devin workflow at a time
[p] Given the number of low-hanging-fruit technical debt tasks across the codebase, Ramp deployed Devin to automate one clean-up or optimization task at a time. To do so, they leveraged Devin’s API to trigger multiple Devins in parallel to return completed PRs en masse.
[blockquote] “It can take several days to remove a single feature flag. We’ve tried scripting it in the past, but only Devin can comprehensively remove the feature flag PLUS fix any breaking tests or other dependencies. In the past month alone this has saved us over 1000 engineering hours.” —Rakesh Nori, Software Engineer, Ramp
[p] “It can take several days to remove a single feature flag. We’ve tried scripting it in the past, but only Devin can comprehensively remove the feature flag PLUS fix any breaking tests or other dependencies. In the past month alone this has saved us over 1000 engineering hours.”
[p] —Rakesh Nori, Software Engineer, Ramp
[p] Removing just a single feature flag can be challenging, particularly when the flag affects logic throughout the codebase in a variety of different formats. Identifying all dead code paths, conditionals, and edge cases is not always straightforward and consumes valuable engineering time.
[p] Devin’s core differentiator here was the ability to run Ramp tests and confirm that core code logic wasn’t affected by the feature flag removal. In certain cases, running the tests and seeing the stack trace was the only way to identify all downstream dependencies and affected tests, meaning that any classical static analysis approach would have been far more difficult to make work.
[p] As a result, Ramp saw an opportunity to work with Devin to build an easy-to-use feature flag removal system with minimal overhead:
[h2] Example worker Devin prompt:
[p] Now, any engineer at Ramp can simply input their feature flag into their internal tool, and Devin will automatically tag them when the PR is completed. Today, Devin is a core piece of internal Ramp tooling that orchestrates and executes tasks that were previously unachievable without a coding agent.
[blockquote] “Having Devin be the first eyes on every Airflow error is a massive time-saver. Half of the time we can merge Devin’s PR as-is, which saves hours of debugging. Even when the solution isn’t perfect, Devin’s change almost always brings us to the solution much faster anyway.” —Peyton McCullough, Staff Software Engineer, Ramp
[p] “Having Devin be the first eyes on every Airflow error is a massive time-saver. Half of the time we can merge Devin’s PR as-is, which saves hours of debugging. Even when the solution isn’t perfect, Devin’s change almost always brings us to the solution much faster anyway.”
[p] —Peyton McCullough, Staff Software Engineer, Ramp
[p] Data Platform is the nexus for a large number of internal systems and teams at Ramp, home to a lot of cross-functional activity and contributions. As a result, things break often. Every morning, Ramp’s Platform Engineering team wakes up to a handful of Airflow errors or failure reports to debug manually. These are time sensitive errors that are often directly related to critical finance services, but the code fixes themselves are usually straightforward. The vast majority of the engineering pain comes from context switching to the error or triaging the site of the bug in the first place.
[p] So, after early experiments showed promise, Ramp decided to leverage Devin to automate the first pass on every Airflow failure and relieve the pressure on platform engineers. It was an easy implementation: Ramp simply took the Airflow error logs, determined those that made sense for Devin to fix, then triggered Devin via its API to work on a fix. If the CI checks completed successfully for Devin’s fix, Devin would then open a PR and tag the appropriate engineer.
[p] Instead of a manual debugging process, Ramp’s engineers now simply review and approve a Devin PR that already passes CI. Even in the case where the fix isn’t exactly right, it is almost always in the right ballpark, which will still dramatically accelerate time-to-fix.
[blockquote] “Devin helped automate the process of reducing our test suite local runtime by an entire minute. For every single engineer on the team, that’s up to 20 minutes of dev time back every single day.” —Maxim Enis, Software Engineer, Ramp
[p] “Devin helped automate the process of reducing our test suite local runtime by an entire minute. For every single engineer on the team, that’s up to 20 minutes of dev time back every single day.”
[p] —Maxim Enis, Software Engineer, Ramp
[p] Ramp was sitting on a backlog of over 100 slow tests and over 500 legacy, undocumented endpoints. In both cases, the team built a prompt for Devin that used an objective validation criteria, which essentially gave Devin a test-driven development workflow. For slow tests, they created a verification script that confirmed Devin’s optimizations maintained identical test coverage. Similarly for endpoint documentation, the script completed only when the expected response types matched Devin’s documented API types.
[h2] Slow test validation script pseudocode:
[p] Using these validation scripts, Ramp was able to essentially remove all false positives and confidently process their entire backlog through Devin. Even if there were certain tasks that Devin couldn’t complete, the script would not pass and the PR would never get surfaced. This allowed Ramp to parallelize as many Devins as they wanted without fear of being noisy, bottlenecked only by bandwidth for human review.
[p] This style of use case is one of the most common at Ramp – namely, a Devin workflow that can be applied to every backlog instance of a technical debt use case.
[h2] Results
[blockquote] “At Ramp, there’s an internal tracker of Devin use case suggestions that any engineer can contribute to. Every week, our Applied AI team selects and automates the highest impact ones using Devin. Devin has essentially given us a completely new way of eliminating the most tedious technical debt workflows that, until now, were all being done manually.” —Rahul Sengottuvelu, Head of Applied AI, Ramp
[p] “At Ramp, there’s an internal tracker of Devin use case suggestions that any engineer can contribute to. Every week, our Applied AI team selects and automates the highest impact ones using Devin. Devin has essentially given us a completely new way of eliminating the most tedious technical debt workflows that, until now, were all being done manually.”
[p] —Rahul Sengottuvelu, Head of Applied AI, Ramp
[p] Devin has saved thousands of hours of engineering work so far in technical debt cleanup across a variety of use cases, dramatically accelerating core product and engineering velocity at Ramp.